# [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/) + [lunr.js](http://lunrjs.com/) = Static websites with powerful full-text search using JavaScript

Use [lunr.js](http://lunrjs.com/) to provide simple full-text search, using JavaScript in your browser, for your Jekyll static website.

Inspired by Pascal Widdershoven's [Jekyll + indextank](https://github.com/PascalW/jekyll_indextank) and Michael Levin's [Sitemap.xml Generator](https://github.com/kinnetica/jekyll-plugins) plugins.

This Jekyll plugin handles the generation of a lunr.js compatible `.json` index file. Runtime search configuration is provided by a simple jQuery plugin.

It allows full-text search of all your Jekyll pages and posts. Executed by the client without any server-side processing (outside of serving static files).

## How to use

### 1. Install the plugin

Choose to install as either a Ruby Gem, or by copying the pre-built plugin file to your Jekyll site.

#### 1a. Install as a Ruby Gem

1. Install the [jekyll-lunr-js-search](https://rubygems.org/gems/jekyll-lunr-js-search) Ruby Gem.

        gem install jekyll-lunr-js-search

2. Modify your Jekyll `_config.yml` file to include the Gem.

        gems: ['jekyll-lunr-js-search']

#### 1b. Install by copying the plugin to your Jekyll site.

1. Place `build/jekyll_lunr_js_search.rb` inside the `_plugins` folder in the root of your Jekyll site.

The content from all Jekyll posts and pages will be indexed to a `js/index.json` file ready for lunr.js to consume. This happens each time the site is generated.

A jQuery plugin is provided in `js/jquery.lunr.search.js` to handle the configuration of lunr.js with the search index JSON data generated by this plugin.

Dependencies for the jQuery plugin are as follows.

* [jQuery](http://jquery.com)
* [lunr.js](http://lunrjs.com)
* [Mustache.js](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js)
* [date.format.js](http://blog.stevenlevithan.com/archives/date-time-format)
* [URI.js](http://medialize.github.com/URI.js/)

A pre-built version of the jQuery plugin, along with all of the above dependencies, concatenated and minified is available from at [build/search.min.js](https://github.com/slashdotdash/jekyll-lunr-js-search/blob/master/build/search.min.js).

### 2. Copy the jQuery plugin and add a script reference.

#### 2a. Using the pre-built, minified plugin from the gem.

The plugin will automatically add the minified JavaScript file `js/search.min.js` to your `_site`.

To use it, you must add a script reference to the bottom of your nominated search page.

        <script src="/js/search.min.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>

#### 2b. Using the jQuery plugin and managing its dependencies yourself.

1. Copy `js/jquery.lunr.search.js` to your Jekyll site's JavaScript directory.
2. Add a script reference to the bottom of your nominated search page for `jquery.lunr.search.js` and each of the dependencies outlined above.

        <script src="/js/jquery-1.9.1.min.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
        <script src="/js/lunr.min.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
        <script src="/js/mustache.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
        <script src="/js/date.format.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
        <script src="/js/URI.min.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>
        <script src="/js/jquery.lunr.search.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>

Make sure you use the same version of lunr.js as the gem. The Jekyll log output includes the version used.

Ideally you would concatenate, minify and optimise these six `.js` files using uglify/Google closure/etc to produce a single `search.min.js` file to reference (or use the pre-built script as described in 2a above).

    <script src="/js/search.min.js" type="text/javascript" charset="utf-8"></script>

### 4. Add a search form with a query input as shown.

    <form action="/search" method="get">
      <input type="text" id="search-query" name="q" placeholder="Search" autocomplete="off">
    </form>

Search happens as you type, once at least three characters have been entered.

Providing the form action and specifying the get method allows the user to hit return/enter to also submit the search.
Amend the form's action URL as necessary for the search page on your own site.

### 5. Add an element to contain the list of search result entries.

    <section id="search-results" style="display: none;"> </section>

This may be initially hidden as the plugin will show the element when searching.

### 6. Create a Mustache template to display the search results.

    {% raw %}
    <script id="search-results-template" type="text/mustache">
      {{#entries}}
        <article>
          <h3>
            {{#date}}<small><time datetime="{{pubdate}}" pubdate>{{displaydate}}</time></small>{{/date}}
            <a href="{{url}}">{{title}}</a>
          </h3>
          {{#is_post}}
          <ul>
            {{#tags}}<li>{{.}} </li>{{/tags}}
          </ul>
          {{/is_post}}
        </article>
      {{/entries}}
    </script>
    {% endraw %}

Note the use of `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}` to ensure the Mustache tags are not stripped out by Jekyll.

The fields available to display are as follows.

#### entries
List of search result entries (mandatory).
#### date
Raw published date for posts, or null for pages. Can be used to toggle display of the following dates in the template `{{#date}}has a date{{/date}} {{#!date}}no date{{/date}}`.
#### pubdate
Post published date, formatted as 'yyyy-mm-dd', to be used in a html5 `<time datetime="{{pubdate}}">` element (posts only).
#### displaydate
Post published date, formatted as 'mmm dd, yyyy', such as Oct 12, 2012 (posts only)
#### title
Title of the Jekyll page or post.
#### url
URL of the Jekyll page or post that can be used to create a hyperlink `<a href="{{url}}">{{title}}</a>`.
#### categories
Categories (array) of the Jekyll page or post, can be used in a loop `{{#categories}}{{.}} {{/categories}}` to list them.
#### tags
Tags (array) of the Jekyll page or post, can be used in a loop `{{#tags}}{{.}} {{/tags}}` to list them.
#### is_post
Booelan value, true if current result element is a post. Can be used to toggle display of specific elements in the template `{{#is_post}}is a post{{/is_post}}`

### 7. Configure the jQuery plugin for the search input field.

    <script type="text/javascript">
      $(function() {
        $('#search-query').lunrSearch({
          indexUrl  : '/js/index.json',           // url for the .json file containing search index data
          results   : '#search-results',          // selector for containing search results element
          template  : '#search-results-template', // selector for Mustache.js template
          titleMsg  : '<h1>Search results<h1>',   // message attached in front of results (can be empty)
          emptyMsg  : '<p>Nothing found.</p>'     // shown message if search returns no results
        });
      });
    </script>

### 8. To exclude pages from the search index.

Add the following `exclude_from_search` setting to any page's YAML config.

    exclude_from_search: true

Or add an array of exclusions (as individual regular expressions) to the site's `_config.yml` file.

    lunr_search:
      excludes: [rss.xml, atom.xml]

### 9. Stop Words

You can also configure a stopwords file, and a minimum length of word to be included in the index file. This can be done by adding a search block to `_config.yml`. The default values are:

    lunr_search:
      stopwords: "stopwords.txt"
      min_length: 3

The stopwords file must consist of one word per line, in lowercase, without punctuation.

### 10. Alternate data directory

You can choose to store `index.json`, `search.min.js` and `lunr.min.js` in a different directory like this:

    lunr_search:
      js_dir: "javascript"

## Demo

Search plugin is deployed to [10consulting.com/search](http://10consulting.com/search/).
Some example search queries are [/search/?q=git](http://10consulting.com/search/?q=git), [/search/?q=cqrs](http://10consulting.com/search/?q=cqrs).

It also features on-demand loading of the search plugin `.js` when focusing into the search field on the [homepage](http://10consulting.com/). Look at the browser network requests clicking into the search input.

## Building

To build the single `jekyll_lunr_js_search.rb` plugin file.

### Requirements

Install [Bundler](http://bundler.io/) and then run the following.

	bundle install

Install [Bower](http://bower.io).

To build the plugin.

    rake build

Then copy `build/jekyll_lunr_js_search.rb` to your Jekyll site's `_plugins` folder and the `build/*.min.js` files to your site's `js` folder.

If you include the `.js` and `.js.map` files your browser developer console will link to the unminified code.